
Business Analytics (BA) is the practice of using quantitative data for decision making purposes.
This involves counting, rule-checking, and basic arithmetic.
Example: The newspaper organization Washington Postcan track readers by time, location and subscription information to learn how to suit their readers better in its display of advertisement.

Business Intelligence (BI) consists of manipulating data to visualize the bigger picture and reporting the past and present observations.
This involves creating charts, tables, and dashboards to display, examine and explore data.

Data mining refers to business analytics methods that uses statistical and machine-leraning methods for decision making.
Data mining go hand in hand with Big Data. 

Big Data has 4 challenges: 
1. Volume: amount of data.
2. Velocity: speed at which the data is genrated and changed.
3. Variety: different types of data being generated (currency, dataes, numbers, text, etc.)
4. Veracity: data is generated by organic distributed processes and not controlled in any way.


TERMINOLOGY
Algorithm: A specific procedure used to implement a particular data mining technique: classification tree, discriminant analysis, and the like.
Attribute: see Predictor.
Case: see Observation.
Confidence: A performance measure in association rules of the type “IF A and B are purchased, THEN C is also purchased.” Confidence is the conditional probability that C will be purchased IF A and B are purchased.
Confidence: also has a broader meaning in statistics (confidence interval), concerning the degree of error in an estimate that results from selecting one sample as opposed to another.
Dependent Variable: see Response.
Estimation: see Prediction.
Feature: see Predictor.
Holdout Data (or holdout set): A sample of data not used in fitting a model, but instead used to assess the performance of that model. This book uses the terms validation set and test set instead of holdout set.
Input Variable: see Predictor.
Model An algorithm as applied to a dataset, complete with its settings (many of the algorithms have parameters that the user can adjust).
Observation: The unit of analysis on which the measurements are taken (a customer, a transaction, etc.), also called instance, sample, example, case, record, pattern, or row. In spreadsheets, each row typically represents a record; each column, a variable. Note that the use of the term “sample” here is different from its usual meaning in statistics, where it refers to a collection of observations.
Outcome Variable: see Response.
Output Variable: see Response.
P (A j B): The conditional probability of event A occurring given that event
B has occurred, read as “the probability that A will occur given that B has occurred.”
Prediction: The prediction of the numerical value of a continuous output variable; also called estimation.
Predictor: A variable, usually denoted by X, used as an input into a predictive model, also called a feature, input variable, independent variable, or from a database perspective, a field.
Profile: A set of measurements on an observation (e.g., the height, weight, and age of a person).
Record: see Observation.
Response: A variable, usually denoted by Y , which is the variable being predicted in supervised learning, also called dependent variable, output variable, target variable, or outcome variable.
Sample: In the statistical community, “sample” means a collection of observations.
In the machine learning community, “sample” means a single observation.
Score: A predicted value or class. Scoring new data means using a model developed
with training data to predict output values in new data.
Success Class: The class of interest in a binary outcome (e.g., purchasers in the
outcome purchase/no purchase).
Supervised Learning: The process of providing an algorithm (logistic regression, regression tree, etc.) with records in which an output variable of interest is known and the algorithm “learns” how to predict this value with new records where the output is unknown.
Target: see Response.
Test Data (or test set): The portion of the data used only at the end of the model building and selection process to assess how well the final model might perform on new data.
Training Data (or training set): The portion of the data used to fit a model.
Unsupervised Learning: An analysis in which one attempts to learn patterns in the data other than predicting an output value of interest.
Validation Data (or validation set): The portion of the data used to assess how well the model fits, to adjust models, and to select the best model from among those that have been tried.
Variable: Any measurement on the records, including both the input (X) variables and the output (Y ) variable.

